So, in particular, what I wanted to
move on to was this idea of well,
okay, so we know that an MVP is valuable,
that it brings a lot to the table,
but how do we identify
what should be in our MVP?
And partly, that goes back to
the question that was asked about, well,
hang on, if we've got an existing product,
are you saying we go right back to only
one thing from that existing product?
No, I'm not saying that.
I'm saying, you need to define your MVP
within the context that you're working on.
So what do you consider when
you're doing that process?
Well, there's kind of different
ways you can approach this, but
my personal preference is that
I look at the following things.
The first is the user need, right?
So, what's the absolute
core task that users need
to complete in order to
achieve their goal, okay?
So depending on, if you've got an existing
product, you've got an existing user base,
and so you need to accommodate all
of those existing requirements for
those different audiences
to achieve their goals.
So as a result, your MVP is probably gonna
be a lot bigger than it would be if you
were starting from scratch.
If you're starting from scratch,
then you might define just
one small audience, right, and
focusing just on their needs.
So user needs is one kind of obvious area
that you can use to define your MVP.
The second one is your value proposition.
This is a little bit of a different
element here, because your value
proposition is about how you're
positioning yourself in the market and
how you're selling yourself in the market.
And there is often functionality
that has crept into an app over time
because people have requested it,
that isn't really in line with
how you're trying to position yourself,
what kind of thing you're delivering.
So let's take something like Figma,
for example.
Figma, you could use for print design.
It's not designed for print design,
it's not part of their value proposition,
right?
They're a digital design tool, but
you could use it for print design, and
I suspect there are people that
maybe do a bit of print and
a bit of digital that use Figma for
both, okay?
And what will happen is over time
those people will start saying,
can I have this feature, which would
help with my print design work?
Well, no, we don't want to include that,
even if it's a user-requested feature,
because it's not a part of who we are and
what we do.
And then the final aspect to
it is time and effort, right?
So as you're thinking about
your minimal viable product,
which features can be
built relatively easily?
Which features, if we've got an existing
product, can we carry across easily?
If it's really easy to carry
them across them, why not?
Presuming it's still in line with our
value proposition and user needs.
But if something is more complicated and
it's gonna take more time,
then obviously you probably don't
wanna include it initially.
So this idea of identifying
your MVP is really a useful
starting point to bring clarity to the
chaos of what could be done with this app.
And then, once you've kind of defined
what you want your MVP to do,
then what you wanna do is start
trialing it, trying it out.
And prototyping is always
a great place to start.
I'm sure that doesn't blow your minds,
that I'm gonna suggest that you prototype
your MVP before you actually build it,
cuz it's a lot cheaper than
building it straight all in code.
Prototyping obviously allows you to
test by running usability testing
with a small number of users
on your initial prototype.
But you can also prototype
in code as well,
and that's okay to do.
Sometimes it's actually as quick and
easy to throw something
together in code than it is
to build it in Figma, right?
Especially if it's got a lot
of interactive components,
because Figma sucks at
interaction prototypes.
It's full of bugs, annoys me,
sorry, I'm making you laugh for
my, [LAUGH] so
I shouldn't say that out loud.
So sometimes I will actually go, well,
let's just kind of throw this together
in code, in which case you can even do
something like a soft launch, right?
And you can actually expose that
initial prototype MVP build
just to a small number of
people on an invite-only basis.
And say, we know this spits rubbish and
it'll break and all the rest of it, but
we'd love you to try it out.
And then eventually you get to
the point where your MVP becomes mature
enough that you can actually launch it and
then you can start monitoring it.
But all of this is really a kind of
prototyping journey of developing this
minimum viable product through stages,
a bit in Figma, an initial rough build,
and then something that's
a little bit more mature.
And each of those stages allows
you to gather user feedback and
understand their needs a little bit more.
And of course, once the MVP is live,
then you're getting heat maps and
session recordings and analytics, and
all these kinds of monitoring stuff.
So gathering feedback on your MVP is so
incredibly important.
And again, this is a another
problem with MVP, so I often see,
is that people go yes, we're gonna
build a minimum viable product.
And then they launch it, and
then they just move on to the next
feature that they want to add.
Well, hang on a minute,
pay attention, right?
Pay attention to what you've
just put out into the world and
what are people saying that
they want back out of this?
Cuz they might not want any of the things
that you've got planned in the pipeline.
If you've got an MVP and then a backlog of
features, you're doing it wrong, right?
Because, how do you know what that
backlog of features should be until
the MVP is in the world, right?
If you're making assumptions about what
your backlog of features should be,
I mean, I'm not saying you shouldn't have
a collection of things that you've got in
your head, right?
But they shouldn't be all scheduled,
ready to go out after your MVP,
because otherwise you've not listened to
anything that you've got from the MVP.
So gathering MVP feedback
consists of listening,
monitoring social media,
looking for reviews,
reading every message that you get sent,
this is invaluable stuff.
If people are talking to you,
pay attention to it.
Then you watch, I use session recorder
like a Microsoft Clarity or a Hotjar or
something like that that allows
you to watch users using your app.
And then you need to ask as well,
are you sending out surveys?
Are you arranging interviews?
Are you creating feature suggestion
polls with things like poll unit,
where people can say, I'd love this
feature and then others can vote it up?
I was talking to Mark,
who's the founder of FrontendMasters,
and he was saying he spends a big
chunk of his time arranging back
to back user interviews of people
that are using the platform.
So he can talk to them and
he can understand what it is that
they want added to the platform, and
that's exactly how we should be operating,
especially after you launch an MVP.